>> Brian Holt: So
let's talk about creatClass for a second.
There's a creatClass in React and
there's also a createElement.
What createClass is, is you're creating
a blueprint for a new type of component.
Right, so now I have this
MyFirstComponent component, right?
And that is a new type of element
that I can render out to the dom.
And every time I render that out,
I can render this out 15 different times.
And I'll get 15 different divs
with 15 h1s inside of that, right?
So it's a blueprint, it's a new stamp for
stamping out different
My First Components.
Then we're gonna have
react create element,
which we're about to use
here in just a second.
And what react create element
is it's one stamp, right?
It's creating one instance of
that particular new element.
So let's actually go do that right here,
underneath my first component.
Wanna say ReactDOM.render.
Okay, so this is actually where we're
going to put it unto the DOM cuz nothing
has happened yet.
We haven't actually put
it onto the DOM yet.
And we're gonna sayReactDOM.render,
React.createElement.
So we're gonna do one stamp
here of MyFirstComponent,
and then you just have to
tell it where to put it.
So I'm gonna say
document.getElementById app, right?
So I'm just telling it put it here,
up in this particular div, up here.
>> Brian Holt: All right, does this
distinction between createElement and
createClass make sense?
Okay, cool.
>> Brian Holt: So, actually, if you
really wanted to get into it, this div,
react.DOM.div, is just a helper
method to create divs.
You really could just say,
react.create element,
>> Brian Holt: And
have this be a div, right?
And then I think it would
be null after that.
So here you would just be
creating one instance of a div.
But this React.DOM helper makes it a
little bit easier to see what's going on.
>> Speaker 2: You've got a typo.
>> Brian Holt: Do I?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah,
element is element app.
>> Brian Holt: Ele.
>> Speaker 2: Little further,
getElementById.
>> Brian Holt: GetElement.
>> Speaker 2: getElementAt.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, thank you.
>> Speaker 2: Thanks, Jacob.
>> Brian Holt: [LAUGH] Cool, so let's
go actually open this in our browser.
>> Brian Holt: So just Cmd + open,
and I am in talks, fem,
react and Index.html.
>> Brian Holt: Yes,
this is my first component.
>> Brian Holt: So,
this is obviously a really stupid example.
It would be way easier to just
write the HTML directly, right?
Why the hell would you
actually ever do this?
But I wanna show you that React
itself is pretty simple, right?
There's just really not a whole lot to it.
We like to build these castles around
it and make it much more grandiose and
complex than it really is.
But the library itself,
there's not really much to it and
there's not much to getting it up and
running.
How many people have seen the classic
Angular demo where they show you how
to do ng-repeat and your mind is blown.
Because you did this crazy ng-repeat
with only five lines of code.
You can do that shit in React.
It's just, it's no longer impressive,
I think so.
Anyway, rant over.
>> Brian Holt: Okay.
>> Speaker 2: Question.
>> Brian Holt: Sure.
>> Speaker 2: Coming from AB.
Why is DOM part of the React library?
Shouldn't it come in React DOM?
What's the use of React.DOM
whle coding for native?
>> Brian Holt: So the answer to your
question is there's no use for native.
And this is just a bunch
of tiny helper methods.
So I think they just left it in
because it is so convenient.
But they are really just
helper methods that wrap to be
createElement calls, right?
They're just very thin wrappers.
So they're so small,
it's probably bytes on the wire.
So they just leave it in in
the main package, probably for
compatibility reasons, to be honest.
>> Speaker 2: Okay, I'm not exactly
understanding the question.
Could you look in the chat.
He's got a follow up,
AB at the bottom says,
DOM.div, DOM.h1, is it?
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, I think it's just
referring to these two particular
calls right here.
>> Speaker 2: Right, yeah, but
I guess I'm not sure if he's asking
to follow up to what you just said.
>> Brian Holt: They're helper methods,
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Brian Holt: There's not
much more to it than that.
And actually, you can make this
a little bit more nicer looking, so
it looks even more like markup.
If you say var div = React.DOM.div and
you say var h1 = REact.DOM.h1 and
then you can just get rid of this.
>> Brian Holt: And
now it looks even more like markup, right?
But I wanna demonstrate to you that
components in React are nothing
but functions.
So that's the mapping you need to
get into your head that a component,
a tag, an element is just a function call.
Everything's a function call,
which is cool.
Because we can start doing
high order functions and
stuff like that, you can do some
really cool stuff with that.
Any other questions?
This make sense?
>> Speaker 2: Again, follow up,
I think they're asking where
did those things come from?
>> Brian Holt: They're
from the React package.
There's this .DOM kind of mini
library with React of just
a bunch of helper methods for
specifically React's DOM.
And it doesn't exist in native.
It's only for DOM.
And it's in there for historical reasons.
They just leave it in there.
>> Speaker 2: So it does not
come from the React-DOM package?
>> Brian Holt: Nope, [INAUDIBLE].
>> Speaker 2: That's, I think,
the sticking point they're having.
>> Brian Holt: I'm 95%, I'm sure of that.
You might want to check me on that.
But they're so small, but I can't imagine
it adds anything to the page weight,
so they just leave it in there.
>> Brian Holt: The only thing that we're
using from React-DOM is specifically this
right here, the .render method,
which actually puts it onto the DOM.
>> Brian Holt: I guess
that bears mentioning.
Whenever you include these
node_modules/react/dist/react,
it's creating a global
variable called react, right?
So if that was unclear
where that was coming from,
it's coming from this right here.
Same with React.DOM, this global variable
comes from, including this script, right?
That's where the magic happens.